I"á<p>Sustainable transitions are complex, wicked problems that transcend traditional governance structures. The scale of current ecological crisis, notably biodiversity loss and climate change, necessitate a level of societal co-ordination which has rarely been attempted. To efficiently coordinate responses from all levels of society, new synergies must be realized giving room for novel solutions.</p>

<p>Cities are an ideal proving ground for these synergies. As both innovation centers and high occupancy arenas, cities are key battle-grounds for climate change. By 2050, two out of every three people are likely to be living in cities or other urban centres, and current estimates suggest that cities are responsible for 75 percent of global CO2 emissions, with transport and buildings being among the largest contributors (UN REPORT).
However, the organizations, systems, and processes that are currently in place to govern cities are complex and typically have not been developed to address the scale of the climate crisis. Within urban mobility, car-centric development is well understood to provide a host of undesirable effects on both populations and the environment (sources). Cars have come to dominate the global transportation discourse and society has been increasingly built to serve the needs of cars since the 1970‚Äôs. Cities built during this period often feature wide bouvard‚Äôs to accommodate the space needed for moving cars, parking cars, etc. To be able to move towards a sustainable society, the number of cars and distances traveled in cars must be dramatically reduced (source).
However, moving away from car-centric design may be easier said than done. Government organizations which set standards for mobility and accessibility are inertly risk-adverse and may incorporate rigid organizational culture, which stifle innovation and often have prescriptive requirements that other actors are required to follow. A potent example of the challenges in city governance and urban design found in Songdo International Business District.
Songdo is a purpose-built city in South Korea designed from the ground-up as a sustainable ‚Äòsmart-city‚Äô. The city lays 30 km south east of the capital, Seoul on 600 hectors of reclaimed land on the coastline. This 10-year development project is estimated to cost in excess of $40 billion USD, making it one of the most expensive development projects ever undertaken [1].</p>

<p>As the city was built on top of reclaimed land, with no pre-existing infrastructure or residents, it offers a unique glance into governance challenges. Without residents, or decades to centuries of urban fabric to wade through, how could mobility within a city look? What facets would be prioritized to build a eco-city?
When being designed, Songdo set a goal of being an integrated 15-minute city in which inhabitants can reach 90% of their daily activities by bike or public transportation in fifteen minutes or less (Blomberg, Poon). The principal developer Gale International was quoted as saying: ‚ÄúWhat you see today in Songdo, a city that is compact and very much walkable, is a direct outcome of this thoughtful approach to planning.‚Äù (WeForum link) and when the project was announced in 2017, headlines from leading publications proclaimed ‚ÄúThis South Korean city eliminates the need to drive.‚Äù (weforum)
Given the lofty goals of establishing an urban utopia where cars are not required, it may be surprising to learn that Songdo today extensively features massive city blocks with avenues commonly eight to ten lanes.</p>

<p>These roads are the result of a mixture of design intentions attempting to take inspiration from the boulevards of Paris and Korean standards that mandate the width of roads. Despite a conscious effort to avoid exactly this type of development, and with no pre-exiting infrastructure constricting new development, how did this happen?
When the developer came against Korean regulations, the rigid governmental structures prevented the city from designing a truly walkable city. Decades of car dependence has shaped Korean urban planning regulations such that it is now impossible to design new areas without incorporating a car-centric design. Rigid organization structures coupled with trained incapacity have produced futures where despite best efforts, it seems impossible to break free of antiquated notions of mobility.
Songdo provides a compelling bit of empirical evidence which supports what Unruh (2002) has termed a ‚ÄúTechno-Institutional Complex‚Äù (TIC). In this case, the coevolution of car technologies and car dependence societies have served to create a car-dependent TIC with significant change inertia
These TIC lock-in‚Äôs, combined with trained incapacity and poor organizational management create silos where solutions to complex problems are created based on a select set of knowledge (traffic engineering) and specific environmental conditions rather that a deep understanding of the problem itself (mobility). In other words, strategic (how many lanes are needed to move a set number of cars) rather than systemic solutions (how can a city be designed to remove the need for cars) are generated which protect the status-quo and ignore potentially revolutionary solutions which require systemic restructuring.
Additionally missing in the context of mobility in Songdo is the interconnection that mobility can have with health. Looking in an international context, the Netherlands is well known for their high bicycle use. It has been shown that this high use avoids over 6500 deaths each year, and Dutch people have half-a-year-longer life expectancy because of cycling. These health benefits correspond to more than 3% of the Dutch gross domestic product (PAPER Source). By realizing a more sustainable approach to urban mobility, not only has the Netherlands reduced transport related emissions, it has produced economic and massive health benefits.
To realize these sorts of benefits, governance institutions must encourage these types of cross sectorial synergies while moving away from prescriptive type regulations (e.g., there must be 6 lanes of roads) to give way to result orientated regulations (e.g., there must be mobility options for all residents).</p>
:ET